Now pointer to a function.
we know well that we can have  pointer to any data type.
Any primitive data type, we can have a pointer of type class.
Can we have a pointer to a function also.
Yes.
See already I have one function here.
The name of the function is display and not returning anything.
No parameters at that and i it is displaying hello, now from the main function if I have to call this
function.
I can simply say display that's all. i can call this one so Hello will be displayed.
This function is called and hello is displayed and the control returns back.
We know this, now instead of directly calling the name.
Can I use a pointer to a function.
Let us see.
I will define a pointer to a function and will call it does FP then how it should be, written type is void
write void.
Void, any parameters,  no parameters.
So this is the method of declaring a pointer to a function and when you declared a pointer to a function
it must be inside the brackets otherwise it will not be a pointer to a function.
It must be enclosed in a bracket, the next
This is a declaration of a pointer then FP assigned display.
Now this will be assigning name of a function to this point.
So the address of that function will be stored in this pointer.
This is initialization so it means this is a declaration of a pointer and this is initialization of
a pointer.
and now  how to call this, so the same way again start fp in brackets.
Then as there are no parameters just empty.
Now this is a function call.
this is a function.
So declaration of a pointer initialization and function call, for declaration only in place for
function name.
You have to write down the pointer.
Everything should be same when you're declared a pointer to a function.
Everything should be same as the signature of a prototype of a function except the function name you
should have pointer in brackets.
Then initialization directly function name, then calling.
Give the function pointer name and give the brackets.
If the parameters pass them.
That's all that's how a pointer can be assigned to a function.
I'll show you more on this.
Let us see suppose
I have a function called Max which is taking two integers x and y.
And this is returning X greater than y.
return X otherwise y, then I have one more function that is named as min and which takes 2 argumens
X and Y.
And it will return if x is less than y it returns X otherwise y.
Now you have two functions.
this is for finding maximum of two integer that is for finding minimum of two integers.
I will take the prototype int instead of Max.
I will say fp instead of max and then 2 integers
So just take int int.
Don't take any parameter name , dont give the argument name x and y just int, int
This is the declaration of a function.
Now FP assign the max.
So this is assigned to Max, now call
Star FP by passing 10, 5 so which function will be born.
Max is called Max is called.
Max function is called.
So if I see the signature of the prototype of max and min are saying so is it possible that the next
line the next movement I can see FP assigned min.
Yes I can say like this also.
Then if what happens if I say FP 10,5.
What would happen.
Which function is called here.
Here the max was called.
Now the pointer is pointing the min function so min functions will be called.
So here Min is called.
That's it.
So if I remove this and show you just look at the code simply look at the code.
See this line and this line, here max assign, here min is assign but what about these two
lines they are same, they are same but here max function  is called, here min function is called
different functions are called because the pointer is pointing on different functions.
So this is same name different functions different operations.
So this is just like polymorphism.
Yes yes in function overwriting internally.
Function pointer are used for achieving a runtime polymorphism using function overwriting.
So this means that one function pointer can point on any function which is having same signature.
Yes a function pointer can point on all those functions which are having same signature.
So let us write this code and check, so that's all bout function pointers.
Let us write on the code and check.